IoT security and vulnerability analysis

IoT Search Engine:
  https://www.shodan.io/

Articles:
  https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internet_of_Things_Project
  https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_IoT_Vulnerabilities
  https://www.owasp.org/index.php/IoT_Attack_Surface_Areas
  https://www.ic3.gov/media/2015/150910.aspx

The OWASP Top 10 IoT Vulnerabilities:
  Insecure Web Interface
  Insufficient Authentication/Authorization
  Insecure Network Services
  Lack of Transport Encryption/Integrity Verification
  Privacy Concerns
  Insecure Cloud Interface
  Insecure Mobile Interface
  Insufficient Security Configurability
  Insecure Software/Firmware
  Poor Physical Security

The OWASP IoT Attack Surface Areas:
  Ecosystem Access Control
  Device Memory
  Device Physical Interfaces
  Device Web Interface
  Device Firmware
  Device Network Services
  Administrative Interface
  Local Data Storage
  Cloud Web Interface
  Third-party Backend APIs
  Update Mechanism
  Mobile Application
  Vendor Backend APIs
  Ecosystem Communication
  Network Traffic

Communication Protocols:
  WiFi
  Bluetooth
  Ethernet
  
Targets:
  consumer, enterprise, and industrial smart devices
  wireless-enabled home appliances
  devices controlled through smartphone/mobile app

Vulnerability Types:
  Denial of Service
  authentication bypass
  information disclosure
  backdoor
  rerouting

Attack Vectors:
  generation of authentication token
  updates on firmware, database, servers, etc...
  configuration/backup/restore
  signature verification
  SSL validation
  WiFI configuration/access/management
  daemons
  remote access and control
  cloud infrastructure

----------------------------------------
  
Attack Specifics:

Network Packet Based Attacks
  Specially crafted network packets can cause
	an os command injection
	the device to execute arbitrary code
	the product to run an attacker supplied shell script
	the device to overwrite sensitive files - arbitrary code execution
	unsigned firmware to be installed in the device - arbitrary code execution.
	the product to dump strings from an internal database into an HTTP response
    a remotely started SSH server on the device - persistent backdoor
    a valid authentication token to be returned to the attacker - authentication bypass
  To accomplish this an attacker might choose to
    send a series of packets
	intercept and alter network traffic
	send an HTTP request
	impersonate a remote server
	gain network connectivity to the Internet
	send an API call to enable the SSH server
	
----------------------------------------

Target Specifics:

(coffee maker)

When a connected coffee machine is turned on it opens a non-encrypted hotspot and listens to UPNP traffic. 
On the client side, the smartphone running the mobile app provided by the vendor of the coffee machines connects to the hotspot and sends a broadcast UDP request searching for UPNP devices. 
The Coffee machine establish the communication with the app exchanging several data including the SSID and the password to the home wireless network, unfortunately they are in clear text.
 a device, it responds to this request. After that a short communication containing the SSID and the password to the home wireless network, among other things, is sent from the smartphone to the device.
“This is where we detected a problem. Although the password is sent in encrypted form, the components of the encryption key are sent through an open, non-protected channel. 

(hub)

The SmartThings Hub is a central controller that monitors and manages various internet-of-things (IoT) devices such as smart plugs, LED light bulbs, thermostats, cameras, and more that would 
typically be deployed in a smart home. The SmartThings Hub functions as a centralized controller for these devices and allows users to remotely connect to and manage these devices using a smartphone. 
The firmware running on the SmartThings Hub is Linux-based and allows for communications with IoT devices using a variety of different technologies such as Ethernet, Zigbee, Z-Wave and Bluetooth. 

(common)

Vulnerabilities common among IoT devices include unprotected USB ports, lack of digitally signed software updates and unencrypted storage of passwords for users' home Wi-Fi networks. 
Many devices come with default administrative passwords, but without warnings that users need to change those passwords. Other devices have hard-coded administrative passwords that can't be changed.