Specifics:

these exploit a vulnerability by attacking a specific weak point in a system
similar attacks can be used to exploit different vulnerabilities in a system
a surface may have multiple vulnerabilities which can be exploited

These vulnerabilities vary in the level of access required by an attacker to exploit them and the level of access they give an attacker. 
In isolation, some of these might be hard to exploit, but together they can be combined into a significant attack on the device.
It is possible to gather the set of preconditions needed to exploit bugs that would otherwise be unreachable by using multiple vulnerabilities. 
This is commonly referred to as "chaining."

----------------------------------------

Attacks:

Network Packet Based Attacks
  Specially crafted network packets can cause
    an os command injection
    the device to execute arbitrary code
    the product to run an attacker supplied shell script
    the device to overwrite sensitive files - arbitrary code execution
    unsigned firmware to be installed in the device - arbitrary code execution.
    the product to dump strings from an internal database into an HTTP response
    a remotely started SSH server on the device - persistent backdoor
    a valid authentication token to be returned to the attacker - authentication bypass
  To accomplish this an attacker might choose to
    send a series of packets
    intercept and alter network traffic
    send an HTTP request
    impersonate a remote server
    gain network connectivity to the Internet
    send an API call to enable the SSH server
  To stop this you can
    protect a zone by checking packet parameter headers
    Dropping packets with undesirable characteristics
    Stripping undesirable options from packets before admitting them to the zone
    drop malformed IP packets, TCP SYN and SYN-ACK packets that contain data, fragmented ICMP packets, etc...
    
----------------------------------------

Targets:

(coffee maker)

When a connected coffee machine is turned on it opens a non-encrypted hotspot and listens to UPNP traffic. 
On the client side, the smartphone running the mobile app provided by the vendor of the coffee machines connects to the hotspot and sends a broadcast UDP request searching for UPNP devices. 
The Coffee machine establish the communication with the app exchanging several data including the SSID and the password to the home wireless network, unfortunately they are in clear text.
a device, it responds to this request. After that a short communication containing the SSID and the password to the home wireless network, among other things, is sent from the smartphone to the device.
“This is where we detected a problem. Although the password is sent in encrypted form, the components of the encryption key are sent through an open, non-protected channel. 

(hub)

The SmartThings Hub is a central controller that monitors and manages various internet-of-things (IoT) devices such as smart plugs, LED light bulbs, thermostats, cameras, and more that would 
typically be deployed in a smart home. The SmartThings Hub functions as a centralized controller for these devices and allows users to remotely connect to and manage these devices using a smartphone. 
The firmware running on the SmartThings Hub is Linux-based and allows for communications with IoT devices using a variety of different technologies such as Ethernet, Zigbee, Z-Wave and Bluetooth. 

(gateways)

To share the sensor data they collect, IoT devices connect to an IoT gateway or another edge device where data can either be analyzed locally or sent to the cloud.
A gateway provides a place to preprocess that data locally at the edge before sending it on to the cloud.
All data moving to the cloud, or vice versa, goes through the gateway, which can be either a dedicated hardware appliance or software program.

Gateway data-collection points could be especially targeted, with a successful penetration enabling modification of data and control streams over whole sectors of edge devices
certain kinds of attacks would attempt to edit, insert or delete the data streams collected from edge devices. 
The point may not be to corrupt or destroy the data from any particular device, but to help perpetrate some other kind of fraud by modifying it

(common)

Vulnerabilities common among IoT devices include unprotected USB ports, lack of digitally signed software updates and unencrypted storage of passwords for users' home Wi-Fi networks. 
Many devices come with default administrative passwords, but without warnings that users need to change those passwords. Other devices have hard-coded administrative passwords that can't be changed.


