Example 1: Circle with Disney 

https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2017/10/vulnerability-spotlight-circle.html

Exploitable Vulnerability:
  generation of authentication token functionality
  firmware update functionality
  api/CONFIG/backup functionality
  torlist update functionality
  servers update functionality
  database update functionality
  user photo update functionality
  api/CONFIG/restore functionality
  signature verification of the firmware update functionality
  rclient SSL validation in the remote control functionality
  goclient SSL validation in the remote control functionality
  libbluecoat.so SSL validation in the remote control functionality
  WiFi configuration functionality
  notifications functionality
  WiFi management
  WiFi Access Point feature
  WiFi Channel parsing

Exploitable Denial of Service Vulnerability:
  API daemon

Exploitable Authentication Bypass vulnerability:
  API daemon

Exploitable Information Disclosure Vulnerability:
  Apid daemon

Backdoor Vulnerability:
  remote control functionality

Exploitable Routing Vulnerability:
  cloud infrastructure

How it was exploited:
  Specially crafted network packets can cause a valid authentication token to be returned to the attacker resulting in authentication bypass. 
  An attacker can send a series of packets to trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause the product to run an attacker-supplied shell script. 
  An attacker can intercept and alter network traffic to trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause a os command injection. An attacker can send a http request trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause the device to overwrite sensitive files, resulting in code execution. 
  An attacker needs to impersonate a remote server in order to trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause the device to execute arbitrary code. An attacker needs to impersonate a remote server in order to trigger this vulnerability.

  A repeated set of specially crafted API calls can cause the device to corrupt essential memory, resulting in an effectively bricked device. 
  An attacker needs network connectivity to the device to trigger this vulnerability.

  A large amount of simultaneous TCP connections causes the APID daemon to repeatedly fork, causing the daemon to run out of memory and trigger a device reboot. 
  An attacker needs network connectivity to the device to trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause an unsigned firmware to be installed in the device resulting in arbitrary code execution. 
  An attacker can send a series of packets to trigger this vulnerability.

  Certificates for specific domain names can cause the product to accept a different certificate than intended. 
  An attacker can host an HTTPS server with this certificate to trigger this vulnerability.

  SSL certificates for specific domain names can cause the product to accept a different certificate than intended. 
  An attacker can host an HTTPS server with this certificate to trigger this vulnerability.

  A specially crafted token can bypass the authentication routine of the Apid binary, causing the device to grant unintended administrative access. 
  An attacker needs network connectivity to the device to trigger this vulnerability.

  A specially crafted SSID can cause the device to execute limited length shell commands, resulting in code execution. 
  An attacker needs to send a couple of HTTP requests and setup an access point reachable by the device to trigger this vulnerability.

  Specially crafted network packets can cause an arbitrary file to be overwritten. An attacker can send an HTTP request trigger this vulnerability.

  A specially crafted set of packet can make the Disney Circle dump strings from an internal database into an HTTP response. 
  An attacker needs network connectivity to the Internet to trigger this vulnerability.

  A specific set of network packets can remotely start an SSH server on the device, resulting in a persistent backdoor. An attacker send an API call to enable the SSH server.

  A specially crafted packet can make the Circle cloud route a packet to any arbitrary Circle device. An attacker needs network connectivity to the Internet to trigger this vulnerability.

  A specially crafted SSID can cause the device to execute limited length sed commands. An attacker needs to setup an access point reachable by the device to trigger this vulnerability.

  A series of WiFi packets can force Circle to setup an Access Point with default credentials. An attacker needs to send a series of spoofed "de-auth" packets to trigger this vulnerability.

  The Circle device will always connect to the configured Access Point SSID, even if the security option changes. 
  An attacker needs to setup an Access Point reachable by the device and to send a series of spoofed "deauth" packets to trigger this vulnerability.

